And there, if you really have proper understanding of
what I am, Sahasrara should be absolutely clearcut.
And to keep Sahasrara clearcut you must listen
to whatever I have told you.
Obey it as absolutely a ordained thing.
To keep the Sahasrara clean is to open your heart.
If your hearts are not open, how will I fill it up with My love?
Open your heart to your fellow yogis and yoginis.
Don’t get worried about what has happened in the past,
don’t get worried about what has happened in
your life as far as your relationships are concerned.
Such things won’t happen now
in Sahaja Yoga, they cannot happen.
It has been worked out that way, it cannot happen.
Open your hearts, that’s the thing I will say.
Now we have to see what keeps our hearts closed.
Firstly it keeps our heart in a binding, the fear of the past.
In the past if you have done anything wrong, in the past we
have had bad experiences of people,
we are very frightened.
Because of the ego within yourself: you have
frightened others, you have tortured others,
you have dominated others, you have done
all these things, so there is fear in your mind
that others may do the same thing to you.
Secondly, maybe you might have been
tortured by someone or troubled by someone,
so your heart is closed, you can’t open heart to others.
People just don’t talk, they just keep “mum.”
First of all try to trust yourself.
If you have made mistakes, you have to say,
“Yes, I have made mistakes, all right so what?”
Trust yourself that you can correct yourself also.
Trusting doesn’t mean blind ego trip. It does not mean that.
Trust means that “Yes I can correct myself.
I can improve. I can do better.”
Some people think that if you trust yourself
then you should never confess anything that you have done wrong.
That you should never say that it was wrong and I can correct.
This is a wrong idea. You have to trust yourself by saying that,
“Yes I have done mistakes. I have been doing wrong.
I have been faltering but I can correct.
I have that strength within me.
I can rise above all these things.
I have that thing within me which I can use to my advantage.”
Trust yourself. Trust that you are realized souls.
Trust that God loves you.
That He has chosen you to be His instrument.
Love yourself.
You are unique no doubt.
As it is human beings, every individual is an unique person.
But after realization
you are definitely unique person.
how much you feel responsible about yourself
is the second point.
How much you are responsible to be there,
to be a cell in the heart.
Any cell that fails, fails the heart.
Every cell in the heart has to be extremely sensitive
and extremely obedient to the Self, to the Spirit.
It has to activate, work harder when there is need,
there emergency.
That it enjoys the most.
And no impurity should be allowed, the third point now.
As I told you first is collectivity, secondly your responsibility
and third point is purity.
Purity of your own heart first of all,
of your own heart, about sincerity, cunningness.
Clean heart, transparent, open heart.
Trust others.
Talk to everyone with an open heart.
Why do you doubt? If you do not doubt yourself,
you’ll not doubt others.
If your heart is clean,
you can see the other person clearly through and through.
Innocence is such a powerful thing,
such a powerful thing that even a glance
is sufficient to kill a Satan.
Purity of heart, actually when the heart becomes impure
the impurity flows down to other places.
It is not the other way round, is from the heart.
Many people believe that it’s the body
that becomes impure. I think it is the heart,
which becomes really impure,
and then it starts trickling down to the body
and then it is residual there. It settles down there.
So have a clean open heart like a child’s heart. Open heart.
Try to give from your clean heart.
If your heart is not clean, it can never give.
Now how do you clean the heart is the subject
which Felicity wanted me to discuss,
is how to clean the heart.
There is no broom available for that in the supermarket.
There are no Fairy liquids or anything to wash it down.
But there is a way.
Allow your heart to be drenched in your Mother’s love.
Just allow. See how much She loves you.
I trust you.
People laugh at Me sometimes. Some of these saints
who are supposed to be very great people,
they can’t understand how I trust you.
They’d say that oh these are all lost races?
These are horrible people how do you trust them.
But I trusted you the day I saw you.
The day you came to me I trusted you.
And I worked on you from the very first day,
knowing what you are but I trust your Spirit
that it would shine, in the same way, trust.
We laugh at others. I have seen Sahaja Yogis laugh at others;
make fun of them when they come to Me.
Trust them.
When you will trust them, you will respect them also.
So you have to believe
in yourself and enjoy the way
gently you are sweeping
into the current of your Mother’s love.
Just enjoy that.
Like a flower that falls into the current
and flows and enjoys all the beauties of that current.
In the same way,
you should enjoy.
When that enjoyment comes into you, you will start trusting.
And trust your Mother.
First trust yourself,
trust others,
other Sahaja Yogis.
Love thy neighbour as thyself. Who is your neighbour?
He is a Sahaja Yogi.
Stand by him.
And trust your Mother.
As I have trusted you, you have to trust Me,
and it will work out.
Open your heart to this trust.
You should not worry whether it would be
protocolish all right or not,
whether it would be absolutely respectable or not,
because heart knows. Whatever your heart will do
in its genuine form will be respectable,
because there resides your Spirit, which manifests.
That will look after you. By outer forms,
whatever you try is not going to work out.
It is that trust in your loving heart that is going to work.
Now I get many letters saying, ‘Mataji, let the love flow from our hearts.’
Now how am I supposed to do that?
First open your hearts. I will tell you how to open your hearts
How to open your hearts starts with a small thing.
Make a list of the people whom you love and whom you hate.
Then write a loving letter to the ones whom you hate…
Very difficult thing! Extremely difficult!
Write to them saying, ‘ I remember you a lot as you are great.’
It is ok even if they are not, nothing wrong in saying so!
Then say,’ I will feel very nice if you send an answer to this letter.’ Try it out
It will work out because the Spirit has made you capable of that love
There should be no superficiality. He should not feel that ,
’Oh, today he has sent a good letter
so tomorrow’s is going to be horrible.
This first letter is an introduction to what will follow! '
So, you should send a heartfelt letter full of love
Send to those people whom you hate or feel bad about.
But start with Sahaja yogis. Firstly, they should be Sahaja yogis
But you will be surprised that
when you write for the first time,
there will be at least one line
expressing that anger of the past.
So write one more, then a third and after a hundred letters,
there will be at least one letter where this anger is not at all expressed.
We should open our hearts to the person with whom we are angry.
We should see, what he did, am I also doing?
If you have done, then what is the need to be angry?
If he has behaved like that then I won’t behave in the same way.
In reality, you must love him.
In the second part you have to open
your heart.
So, the sincerity comes from an open heart:
if your heart is not open, you cannot
be sincere.
Now, what does it mean that your heart
is not open? Let us see.
You are born again, you have got
your Realization.
Also it is your birthday in a way.
But in the growth of your knowledge
and understanding,
you have not kept pace with your heart.
But what is the reason for that? What is it
that keeps your heart like that?
So, when we say ‘enlarge your heart’,
it means that the stoniness of your heart
has to be melted away.
But how does it become stony? We have
to go to the roots of that.
It becomes like a stone because the heart
controls the brain.
As there are seven auras on your brain,
in the same way, there are seven auras
on your heart.
And all those auras are the ones which
control the auras of the brain.
Now, on the brain, as you know, there are
two institutions of ego and conditionings,
which starts pressing the brain too much.
As a result, all these auras get pressed.
So, the auras which are surrounding
the heart also get pressed.
So the auras around the heart are
very sensitive
and they feel: ‘No use throwing light
on the brain’.
They start becoming smaller and smaller
and that’s how the heart becomes small.
Because they have no purpose in life there,
so they start becoming smaller and smaller.
As a result, the heart becomes small.
You call somebody as very small-hearted
fellow, is a chicken-hearted fellow
or we always say such a man is
a ‘stone-hearted person’.
All this happens
because of the conditionings and the ego
of the human mind
and the result is felt by the heart
becoming a stone,
because heart is a sensitive thing.
Brain is not that sensitive.
So these two conditionings, which actually
are on the brain,
these two conditions freeze the heart and
also make the domain of heart as zero
and then the brain starts asserting itself.
Then the heart just comes back
like a king, returns back
and starts dominating the brain.
And when the heart comes back,
you immediately find
those people with whom we were angry,
we would not talk, we had nothing to do,
suddenly, we become friendly with them.
There’s no problem. In many ways,
people have harmed you.
All that harming and everything just
disappears.
And you start becoming so nice
and beautiful.
Sincerity can only come if you raise your Kundalini again and again
and open your Brahmarandhra.
Then your heart will rise. It will become
a very awakened personality
and it will take charge of your brain,
which is all the time thinking, thinking,
thinking, like mad.
And once that happens, then you will
realize
that now you have jumped into doubtless
awareness.
But, as it is, also it’s very easy to get
rid of these two.
It’s very easy to get rid of these two.
Only by raising your Kundalini and breaking
your Brahmarandhra.
This is the greatest achievement that
you have got,
that you can break your Brahmarandhra,
make your Kundalini get connected
with the All-pervading Power.
That’s why I always say you must meditate
and you must be in thoughtless awareness,
then it works out.
I hope this will happen this year here
and people will try to make it a point
that we have a large heart.
Large heart doesn’t mean stupidity,
doesn’t mean that.
Large heart means the heart in which
you can put Me in.
It’s quite a big person, Myself,
so you have to have a very large heart
that I could reside into your heart.
That is the large heart and that’s what
you all should have.
If that happens, then everything
will work out very well.
So may God bless you!